---
title: Authentication to the API
navigation:
    sectionTitle: Developers Documentation
---

Duty Duck's REST API, accessible at `https://api.dutyduck.net`, allows you to perform all actions available on the Web interface: manage monitors, tasks, incidents, etc.

## Generate an access token

To use the API, you'll need an *access token*. An access token consists of an identifier and a secret key.

::alert{variant="warning"}
Your access token allows performing any action on your behalf. You must keep it secure and never share it with anyone.
::

You can generate an access token for your account from the Dashboard, in the *My Account* section.

- Click on your name in the top right corner of the screen to access the *My Account* page from the dropdown menu.
- In the *API Tokens* section of the page, you can list your access tokens or generate a new one.
- Click the *Create token* button to access the creation form. You must provide a label and an expiration date.
For security reasons, the expiration date cannot be more than one year in the future.
- Click the *Create* button to generate the token.
- You will immediately see the identifier and secret key. Save the secret key immediately in a secure location, as it will only be displayed once.

At any time, you can delete an access token from the same *API Tokens* section. It is recommended to do this if you no longer use an access token or if you suspect it has been compromised.

## Using an access token to make requests

The *identifier/secret key* pair allows you to authenticate your API requests. You must include them in the `X-Api-Token-Id` and `X-Api-Token-Secret-Key` headers for each request.

For example, to make a request with cURL to list your organization's monitors:

### Examples

#### cURL

```bash
curl -X GET "https://api.dutyduck.net/monitors" -H "X-Api-Token-Id: 1234567890" -H "X-Api-Token-Secret-Key: abcdef1234567890"
```

#### In JavaScript, using `fetch`:

```javascript
fetch('https://api.dutyduck.net/monitors', {
    headers: {
        'X-Api-Token-Id': '1234567890',
        'X-Api-Token-Secret-Key': 'abcdef1234567890'
    }
});
```

## Learn more

- [Complete API Documentation](/docs/api)